Now the next thing I want to talk about is how do you become editors pick or how do you become selected
by the staff at either Kickstarter or Indiegogo to be featured on their homepage.
So what do you get as a benefit of being the Editor's Pick.
Well when you go into Kickstarter and you go into explore the default sorting method is by magic Now
Magic prioritises the staff pick by a huge margin so you'll very often see pretty much all of the topics
listed at the top of this default sorting algorithm.
And when you look at any category sorted by magic the biggest weighting is still that staff pick and
not only that you'll get put out in their weekly newsletter going out to all Kickstarter backers who
will see your project being featured front and center.
Plus you get a post going out on their Twitter handle which has over a million followers.
So the benefits are huge if he can become that staff pick.
So how do you do it.
How do you become an editors pick one of the easiest ways of getting their attention is by internationalizing
your video.
Now when you look into any Kickstarter video if there is a close caption button you can click on it
and view the video with subtitles in various languages.
So you have to realize that Kickstarter and indigo have customers all over the world who watch and pledge
to their campaigns.
So if you make your video easily digestible by people from all around the world then you give your campaign
that much more of a boost and you can do it actually quite easily after you upload your campaign video
into Kickstarter.
You can add all of the captions either by typing it in live or by uploading it.
So the reason why this is such a big boost in terms of becoming a editors pick is because very very
few campaigns do it.
Even when you look at some of the most successful ones people can't be bothered to put in the subtitles
or to put in the close captions and other languages and that makes your campaign stand out to the editors
by that much more.
Now another way of going about this or the Kickstarter suggested way of getting featured is by emailing
two stories at kickstarted dot com.
So actually getting their attention through email and the thing is the important thing to remember is
that you can just hit up this email and say to them hey.
I've launched a Kickstarter.
It's awesome.
Please Feagin that I will never ever work.
Instead what you have to realize is that in order for you to get featured you have to make them look
good.
It's kind of like if you want to get promoted right.
You have to make your boss look good.
This is the same thing.
So what you want to do is once youve gotten some press or some mention either in your local news paper
or in some sort of small blog or maybe if you manage to leverage the blog to get into a bigger blog
right.
You want to post those press mentions two stories at Kickstarter dot com to show them hey look how good
I've made you guys look.
By having my campaign on your platform and that is your biggest chance of getting into the featured
sections now another kind of hacky way of going about this is actually tracking down the staff members
who are responsible for putting on that badge into a certain category.
So I'm going to show you a quick demo of a really hacky way of going about this.
So if you go on to kickstarted dot com slash team then you get into their team page and you can see
all of their staff members listed.
So here you can see that people are sorted by their interests.
So say if you have a technology Kickstarter that you want to get featured right then maybe you want
to have a look at all the staff who classify themselves as hackers.
Now you can see that on this page you see a lot of the staff members right and you see how many projects
they've backed.
What is their favorite category.
And the thing that is lacking is any sort of link.
So none of these click through to anything.
And also they don't give you their surname so you can figure out exactly what all the job titles of
all these people but you can do though is you can hit right click and go to inspect.
And that brings up the chrome developer tools.
So again you need to be inside Chrome for this to work and rest assured there is nothing technical about
this.
Anybody can do this.
It requires no programming whatsoever despite the name developer tools so you can see that it highlights
the line of code that is responsible for serving up this particular image on screen and on the right
side here.
Youve got this tab called styles and youve got this thing called background image and you can see that
it's providing you that you are well of where the image is located.
So if you copy that you are l and you paste it into your browser.
Then it will take you to the location where that image is hosted and what you can do here is you can
right click and you can press search Google for image.
Now what this does is it performs what's called a reverse image search.
So when you go into Google you can search by text.
So say you're looking for pokémon go right but you can also search by the actual image.
And this will bring up the Google image search.
Now you want to replace this text where it says Twitter here into Linked-In and you're going to hit
enter.
And if you scroll down you'll see the Linked-In profiles that are associated with this particular image
and you'll be able to find the Kickstarter staffs LinkedIn profile.
Now the next thing you want to do is you want to go to Hunter dot IO and download their free Chrome
browser extension.
And once you've done that if you reload that linked in profile page you'll see this hunter button show
up.
And when you click on it Ill show you the e-mail that's associated with that person's profile.
So you can actually find this person's contact details and it also shows you the percentage confidence
the algorithm has in that being the right email.
So once you found the right e-mail then you're going to approach them and ask them very politely hey
you know our particular project has been featured in all of these places.
We would love your feedback on it.
It might take a little bit of digging around to find the right person who is responsible for the particular
category that you're looking to target.
So for example you might want to look for somebody who is responsible for Design and Technology outreach
right.
They would be the right person who would have the authority to to put that stuff pick badge on to your
project.
So now here's another secret tool.
It's called HubSpot sales and it's a free tool that allows you to track any of your e-mails.
It'll show you whether your e-mail was opened when it was opened and how many times it was open so you'll
get a notification every single time that recipient opens that particular e-mail.
And it's a really really useful tool to see if your email actually got open if it actually got read
and if you should be using a different approach to get people's attention.
So those were some of the top secret tools that we found that were really really helpful for doing outreach
e-mails.
And if you look through the three methods that we mentioned one of them will probably help you in reaching
out to the right person at Kickstarter and being able to maximize your chances of being featured.
Now the thing to remember though is that being featured doesn't equal being funded because there's loads
and loads of projects out there that were Kickstarter staff pick they were picked up because they were
quirky or they were interesting or they approached the staff.
But it doesn't mean that you'll actually get funded so you still need a great project a great team a
great community in order to make it happen.
But being featured just gives you that little bit of extra boost.